도시문화콘텐츠연구 :Based on a basic understanding of urban cultural contents, this lecture aims to achieve the basic specifications of cultural content majors by applying and planning to actual local sites. In principle, the curriculum of sophomores or higher is required to complete the mandatory and optional courses of the first grade of the department of cultural content (such as cultural content introduction and subjects related to urban cultural content). This lecture will cover matters such as regional regeneration, community, sustainability, tourism, cultural landscape, village making, food and cultural content, NPO, etc. and the role of governance, creative personnel and craft industries based on cultural content. In this way, students will be required to propose planning projects in certain areas, and thus have the capacity of cultural content planners. Repeated lectures on basic materials and content during the class will be avoided to the fullest extent and will focus on discussion and inquiry through learners' pre-examination, field-oriented application and planning. As a practical course, individual projects for specific areas should be carried out and small project results should be submitted at the end of the term.
문화원형과고전 : This subject is a class that looks at classics from the perspective of cultural archetypes. An analysis of cultural content works developed so far shows that creative materials are borrowed in a wide variety of ways, but the most overwhelming is targeted at the traditional cultural resources of each country. It is because each country's valuable traditional cultural resources basically contain its own speciality(individuality) as well as global universality In this regard, traditional cultural resources are a key material for the creation of cultural content and a new resource for the knowledge industry society in the 21st century. A systematic understanding of such traditional cultural resources can be said to be a cultural archetype. This class looks at these cultural archetypes in relation to the classics. In particular, it is designed to select classics that contain many cultural archetypes and use them as materials for creating cultural contents in the future. The method of teaching is first required by a lecturer to give a cultural prototype contained in major classics. Next, we will look at various examples of cultural archetypes contained in these classics, including real movies, animations, and games. This will mainly be done by students investigating and presenting. To this end, the project will be carried out using the results of the developed by the Korea Creative Content Agency for 10 years. Through this process, we will be able to cultivate the ability to utilize the cultural prototype contained in the classics as a creative material.
소셜미디어콘텐츠	: This course is about social network sites (or services) such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and YouTubes. With the definiton, caterogories, and history of SNS, some related concepts are explained to further analyze SNS in three areas - sociology, psychology, and communication. Sociological concepts are as social capital, social brain, fandom; psychological concepts are self, identity, personality, narcissism, satisfaction, and needs & gratifications; communicaiton concepts include image construction, information perception, attraction, and context effecs. Those concepts are applied to explain SNS effects in advertising-marketing, policitical and cultural area, technological effects. Some examples will be discussed to apply the concepts to cultural contents areas. Media and network features of YouTube and MCN (Multi-Channel Network) are also summarized. The future trends and prospects will be discussed in the final week.
스토리텔링연구	: This course examines the concepts, types and various techniques of storytelling. Storytelling is not about the content of the story itself, but about the act of speaking and how to do it. Storytelling is the core of cultural contents and a basic framework for telling stories. Creative storytelling techniques are touching, effective, and productive. Different genres of cultural contents have different storytelling techniques and fuse them with each other. Examples include transmedia storytelling and crossmedia storytelling. This course will delve into the various techniques and examples of storytelling.
연기표현실습	: Understand and practice acting and expression in visual media such as broadcast and film.
영상콘텐츠분석	: This course examines the sociocultural meaning of genre film. This course especially studies the meaning and history of genres, and analyzes the grammar and film language of each genre. Every film genre has its own sociocultural background, which directly reflects the times. Each genre, including musicals, gangster films, melodramas, and film noirs, reflects contemporary interests, including social and cultural contexts. This course analyzes 10 traditional film genres and examines how their meanings are consistently reflected in contemporary films. Examples of each genre will also be introduced as videos.
축제이벤트산업론	: Festivals refer to a kind of ceremony in which an individual or group celebrates a time of special significance. However, the recent festival is recognized as a region-based cultural industry, drawing attention from the point of view of economic value and play culture. The word Festival is derived from the Latin word "Festivals," which means "Songil," and its roots are in religious ceremonies. It appears in various formats, such as carnivals and festivals. In this subject, as a local industry, they learn all courses in planning and development, such as festival material discovery, theme design, time and place-setting, programming, operation and evaluation.
A SHIFT IN IDEAS	: This course aims to develop historical and geographical views through selecting and reading historical materials and visiting historic places. Students will gather and examine relevant historical materials on selected historical sites and will conduct a field trip to the sites for four days. The historical sites range from museums, birthplaces of famous historical figures, to Buddhist temples and Confucian academies. Students are expected to deepen their understanding of history through a direct experience of the materiality of historical remains and objects. They are also asked to link the knowledge they gained through a field work to the context they learned through textual study.
문화콘텐츠창작입문	: This course aims to examine various components for effective content creation and to explore the basic structure of the entire production process, including strategic planning/development, user effects, and feedback systems that reflect these effects. As a prerequisite course for future in-depth education at each stage, it examines the meaning of popular content production and various perspectives for its dissemination.
발상의전환	: This course aims to develop historical and geographical views through selecting and reading historical materials and visiting historic places. Students will gather and examine relevant historical materials on selected historical sites and will conduct a field trip to the sites for four days. The historical sites range from museums, birthplaces of famous historical figures, to Buddhist temples and Confucian academies. Students are expected to deepen their understanding of history through a direct experience of the materiality of historical remains and objects. They are also asked to link the knowledge they gained through a field work to the context they learned through textual study.
예술콘텐츠연구	: As we need to learn a foreign language to communicate with foreigners, we need to learn an image language to understand art. In order to gain proper access to the art realm, we need to understand the basic language of art and its political, cultural and social context of the time. The lecture is a process of cultivating basic knowledge to plan artistic contents and fostering aesthetic insight and critical skills. In times like those of the chapters of Western art history, it will cover ancient Egyptian art, ancient Greek and Roman art, Medieval art, Renaissance and Baroque, Neoclassicism and Romanticism, Realism, Impressionism and art of Post-modern era. The course takes time to look into and discuss contemporary art in detail. Artists not only detect new changes first, but also actively create artworks in response to new changes. Artists instinctively ask countless questions and get countless answers. What we pay attention to in class is figuring out what their ideas are.
게임문화산업론	: This course deals with game industry and cultural aspects among game users. Related to game industry, the whole processes to launch a game will be explained - service planning, contents certification, registration, distribution planning, contents team management, profit distribution, marketing, and advertising planning, etc. In addition, with regards to game culture, some recent issues such as game addiction (i.e., gaming disorder), gambling (e.g., probability items), and aggression & violence (e.g., trolling, flaming) are explained with related policies and cultural issues. Specific issues related to recent game industry and cultures will be discussed and anticipated in the near future in the final week.
도시문화콘텐츠기획실습	: Based on a basic understanding of urban cultural contents, this lecture aims to achieve the basic specifications of cultural content majors by applying and planning to actual local sites. In principle, the curriculum of sophomores or higher is required to complete the mandatory and optional courses of the first grade of the department of cultural content (such as cultural content introduction and subjects related to urban cultural content). This lecture will cover matters such as regional regeneration, community, sustainability, tourism, cultural landscape, village making, food and cultural content, NPO, etc. and the role of governance, creative personnel and craft industries based on cultural content. In this way, students will be required to propose planning projects in certain areas, and thus have the capacity of cultural content planners. Repeated lectures on basic materials and content during the class will be avoided to the fullest extent and will focus on discussion and inquiry through learners' pre-examination, field-oriented application and planning. As a practical course, individual projects for specific areas should be carried out and small project results should be submitted at the end of the term.
문화마케팅실습	: Marketing is a branch of business administration that manages the market economy or demand. Marketing includes a series of activities on how to organize and communicate sales activities, and also activities to stimulate and make the other party's potential desires for itself needed, and to smoothly transfer goods and services from producers to consumers. In other words, marketing is to combine the hopes of producers and consumers to provide efficient supplies. Activities for that include market research, merchandising plans, sales promotion, advertising and digital marketing. This course is aimed at cultural marketing that markets the value of culture. In this subject, you will practice creating actual marketing plans and drawing up plans.
문화콘텐츠답사2	: Visit sites in the region that contain cultural heritage and explore ways to connect the past and present of cultural heritage and how it can be contentized.
박물관콘텐츠기획실습	: The museum is a space content. Space contents are contents that use space as a platform and whole body as medium. The range includes theme parks, museums, fairs and tourism. In addition, content should be designed taking into account user desires as well as behavioral characteristics. For museum exhibitions, visitors should comprehensively design the architecture, interior design, viewing lines and multimedia content required when meeting artifacts. As such, space contents are highly characterized as convergence contents that combine various industries and academic elements. In addition, because it has to go to a specific place, it has the characteristics of a very important local industry, where additional consumption such as accommodation, food, and shopping increases in addition to the content experience.
실감콘텐츠경험분석	: Students will learn and practice the basic methology of measurement/analysis/evaluation for cognitive, psychological, and social effects of immersive content users in metaverse. The methodology covers content analysis, experimental/survey design, variable measurement, data collection, statistical analysis, and evaluation.
예술콘텐츠기획실습	: Studying practical curatorial issues of art exhibitions as well as art educational plans to make ideas into concrete form of exhibitions. The visual arts are approached from various topics and perspectives to examine the practical contents, cases, and status required for the planning of the arts event. And, based on them, the art education program planning plan is drawn up and submitted as the final task. The 21st century is the age of curating. In this class, students learn the basics and practices of curatorship which develop cultural content in various spaces and discuss critical subjects for planning exhibitions. This lecture consists of brainstorming exhibition themes and outlines, making plans, designing education programs, investigating public art education systems, and students' own presentations etc. In short, it is a lecture that plans exhibitions and educational programs in the arts, understands curatorship, and practices.
웹툰과콘텐츠IP	: Understand the webtoon genre and industry, which are at the center of IP extension in the cultural content industry, and understand and explore the structure of content extension through various cases.
인터랙티브스토리텔링	: This subject aims to understand the characteristics of digital media as a new story format and to examine the characteristics and changes of interactive storytelling in a timely manner. In addition, various examples of interactive storytelling works are analyzed and applied to actual content planning.
게임인터랙티브콘텐츠기획실습	: Games are the most popular interactive content among digital contents. In this course, we practice the planning and specifically designing of game interactive contents. The design process includes creative idea construction, development system, project setting, basic environment design, actor movement planning, character & animation setting, game events & trigger generation, AI (artificial intelligence) application, etc. Students will practice game design with specialized tools or game engines such as Unreal, Unity, or Construct2. In addition, some theories or user effects related to game design will be introduced and explained with specific examples of experiments or surveys. All the participants will complete their own game design projects in the final week.
글로컬라이제이션과문화공감	: As a result of rapid globalization in the 21st century, conflicts between regionalism and universalism and clash of cultures occurred, but at the same time, transnational social composition in certain local spaces each developed and developed a new community with common regionalism. This cross-cultural empathy has also brought changes within the country, alleviating discrimination in age, gender, region, race, ethnicity, language, class, etc. and pursuing equality and peace through empathy and processing of mass data. Glocal culture is a much more creative and active concept than passive cultural hybridity, meaning that creative reproduction of local culture and newly produced culture in global society will be accepted again as a nation. Based on the research achievements of new social changes and changes and multiplication research, this lecture will be based on various cultural issues such as cultural community, and practical issues for compassion. In this lecture, students can practically organize academic discussions from an integrated perspective that recognizes the transition to a so-called 'sympathetic society' based on the interests, time and spatial context of individuals and society in the age of the glossary, and present practical strategies.
디자인과테크놀로지	: Design ideas are a practical art that must consider functionality and standardization. Contemporary design is not only about style choices, but also about collaborating with each other through technology and networked thinking. This course examines the work of designers in relation to technological culture.
문화콘텐츠취창업실습	: Employment and start-ups are deeply related to career plans after school graduation. A job is a process of finding a job, not a job. This course helps students objectively conduct corporate surveys, fill out resumes and self-introduction statements, practice interviews and prepare yourself for the employment process. Next, we will draw up a business plan to design a one-person company for cultural content in an era when one-person startups have become common. It will gradually learn the components of a business plan, such as market research, creation of a product or service model in the industrial sector, financing plans for start-ups, and development plans. Both are carried out as portfolio tasks that produce results through self-experience.
실감콘텐츠기획론	: Realistic content is content that expands experiences and sensibility similar to reality by stimulating human senses and cognition based on ICT. It has the 3I characteristics of immersion, interaction, and intelligence. This is a subject that learns the entire process of planning realistic content through theory and practice.
엔터테인먼트기획실습	: Understand the structure of the entertainment industry and the content planning process, and practice planning entertainment content.
영상콘텐츠기획제작실습	: In this course, we plan and produce video contents. The genres range from documentaries to essays. Students organize a team of three, explore topics, and present. Topics may relate to sociocultural issues or to college life or study. Each image will be 10 to 15 minutes long. Each video will be screened at a cultural festival in the Department of Cultural Contents. Depending on the situation, it may be in the form of a promotional video in cooperation with institutions such as Children's Grand Park or Seoul City. In this case, the winners may be awarded, and their awards and scholarships may be paid.
출판퍼블리싱산업론	: Publication refers to the reproduction of a document or painting for sale or distribution and the publication of it in the form of a book or magazine. A company that specializes in publishing is called a publishing company. A bookshop is called a shop that sells publishers themselves and publications that are made. Publication lags behind newspapers, radio and television in terms of the speed with which information is delivered, while it is an excellent media in terms of accuracy and accumulation. In this subject, we learn the courses ranging from manuscript discovery, proofreading, editing, design, printing and distribution. They also learn about electronic publishing, which has recently emerged
테마파크콘텐츠기획실습	: Theme park is an example of a space content.. Space contents are contents that use space as a platform and the whole body as medium. The range includes theme parks, museums, fairs and tourism. The theme park will also comprehensively design storytelling, theme-taking, park design, traction, festivals, parades, character products and food and beverage. As such, space contents are highly characterized as convergent contents that combine various industries and academic elements. In addition, because it has to go to a specific place, it has the characteristics of a very important local industry, where additional consumption such as accommodation, food, and shopping increases in addition to the content experience. In this course, an actual theme park plan sheet is co-worked and completed by team.
문화콘텐츠답사3	: Visit sites in the region that contain cultural heritage and explore ways to connect the past and present of cultural heritage and how it can be contentized.
문화콘텐츠종합설계(캡스톤디자인)	: Capstone Design is a program aimed at fostering talent with creative and comprehensive design skills. Students carry out a series of courses from planning to production of graduation works in order to develop the ability to solve problems encountered on the spot. It is composed of teams, and is also helpful in fostering creativity, teamwork, and leadership, and is also called "creative comprehensive design." It originated from a capstone, which is the last place on a roof or wall when building a house in a foreign country. The entire process - market research, user demand analysis, material survey, concept design, storytelling, experience building, service strategy, public relations marketing plan, and planning - is carried out in stages. The final result is to develop a prototype of cultural content and share the results through presentations in front of all students.
산학협력창의워크샵	: Industry-academic cooperation can be defined as "all efforts to enhance the effectiveness of industrial management while pursuing the practicality of education and training through mutual cooperation of students who want to work in industry in the future under joint planning and guidance among academic and industrial related agencies." This subject is based on industry-academic cooperation and is centered on mentoring between field experts and students. This offers an opportunity to listen to and discuss the rapidly changing cultural content market together. This creates a network between business professionals and students and helps students choose their careers.
상징과이미지	: This course is an exploration of diverse images and symbols in history, and discussion about effective applications in cultural contents. In this lecture, various symbols and allegories used in images will be tracked in various backgrounds, including literature, mythologies, and histories. In addition, we will look at how the symbol is being created, understood and consumed. Everyone produces and consumes images, but it is not an easy task to interpret them because they are intertwined with religious, philosophical, mythical and social codes. The class will delve into the history of visual representations and discuss in-depth issues related to images from the birth of images to today's various digital media images. There is not only beauty in images. Why are we drawn to something bizarre and unknown? In the class, we will also track the monsters in human culture while exploring the phenomena of pendulum outside beauty. It will promote the use of cultural content through research on symbols and related images of Eastern and Western cultures.
유럽영화비평세미나	: Through the historical exploration of European cinema and the examination of representative cases of Nouvelle Vague and New German Cinema, students will learn the spirit of European cultural contents and hold a critical seminar to compare them with Korean cinematic contents.
스토리텔링실습	: Understand how stories are organized and created, and create a source story or worldview that can be adapted to a variety of story genres and platforms.
융복합콘텐츠기획실습	: This class is to provide practical experience to produce convergent contents products. Specific tools will be given to finish specific projects to complete cultural contents such as digital games, movies, exhitibiton plans, animations, events, or artistic works. Students will study how to make a overall time sheet and specialized design book. Team projects and individual works will be given and students are required to finish at least one project by the end of semester. Each week, the projects will be evaluated with specific evaluation sheets. The final works will be evaluated by expert groups and exhibited in the students work exhibition after the evaluation.
디지털인문학연습 : Basic skills on information search, organization, and applications of cultural information in the humanities.
문화이론연구 : This course lays the foundation for analyzing and creating cultural contents through the exploration of various cultural theories related to cultural contents.
문화콘텐츠답사1 : Visit sites in the region that contain cultural heritage and explore ways to connect the past and present of cultural heritage and how it can be contentized.
문화테크놀로지연구: This course covers four areas of CT (Culture Technology): 1) reality, 2) interaction, 3) social, and 4) convergence. The reality section covers 3D, 4D, holography, and VR-AR technologies; Interaction (& interface) section includes BCI (Brain-Computer Interaction), SRT (Sound Recognition Technology), MIR (Music Information Retrieval), AI (Artificial Intelligence), IoT (Internet of Things), and HRI (Human Robots Interaction); Social section is composed of SNS (Social Network Sites), SNG (Social Network Games), and SC (Social Commerce); and Convergence section highlights DT (Digital Textbooks), Games, Media Arts, Smart Devices (TV & Phones), and Machinima. Each technology will be explained with its cultural, psychological, social, and cognitive effects on the users. We will discuss about the effects of CTs on our daily lives and prospect the trends of CTs in the final week.
한국문화콘텐츠분석: The most important thing in the cultural contents industry is planning. The most important thing in planning is the selection of creative materials. Creative material means any material used by a developer to produce a work, and refers to a state that is not re-created as a material as it is naturally and externally. Creative materials include everything that exists in the world, everything that you have experienced, as well as objects of imagination and desire that you have not experienced or cannot experience. Nevertheless, these creative materials are divided into several types as follows. ①If the subject itself is a creative material such as love, filial piety, etc. ②If a specific person is a creative material, such as Yi Sun-shin(李舜臣) or Hwang Jin-yi(황진이), ③If a particular case is a creative material, such as the Japanese Imvasion of Korea in 1592(壬辰倭亂), the Korean War(韓國戰爭), ④When a specific work(original) or story is a creative material, such as or , it can be divided into a case where a specific object is a creative material, such as food or ceramics. This class is to discover these creative materials. Korean culture is a treasure of creative materials for cultural contents. Therefore, this class aims to broaden the understanding of various creative contents creative materials and to cultivate the ability to apply such creative materials to actual cultural contents planning.
문화콘텐츠학입문: This course aims to introduce the concepts and areas of cultural contents and introduce examples of cultural contents in various genres. By analyzing specific examples of cultural contents in each genre, this course explores the principles of how cultural archetypes are transformed into contents.
영상콘텐츠기초:In this class, we study the basic knowledge of visual contents. We look at the principles of producing visual contents and how to interpret it and how to communicate with them.
인터랙티브콘텐츠연구:Interactivity is one of the critical factors in the development of cultural contents. Focusing on the concept of interactivity, this course deals with the definition, history, diverse perspectives, and various effects (both positive and negative) of interactivity on the cultural industries such as digital games, gaminifications, movies, theme-parks, museums, VR-AR contents, HCI (interface and recognition techs), and advertisements. In addition, for the cognitive effects of interactivity, we will dive into various concepts related to cognitive science such as perception, attention, and memory. As higher cognitive processing concepts, more advanced concepts such as knowledge, language, imagery, decision-making, reasoning, and problem-solving will be studied. The future trends of interactive contents in the cultural contents area will be discussed in the final week.
